I'm hacking right with Remax
professionals my equation for operating
is honor Plus service equals prestige I
am about to share with you how to go
through a contract process to purchase
real estate this is effective both for
the buyer and the seller when we have
negotiated out a purchase contract we
have certain time frames set up in that
contract and the first time frame is
going to be that of inspection period
that is when you go ahead and you do the
three eyes you check on your investment
on your inspection and on your insurance
you need to contact your insurance agent
and get information about the property
to make sure that it is insurable and to
have the insurance effective upon the
closing date you need to go ahead and
get your home inspection because that
will allow you time to walk through the
property with a home inspector who will
look around the whole property and make
sure that there's nothing that is a
problem for in the condition of the
property and also to have a specific
list of things that you wouldn't like to
be completed before closing and then you
also you need to check on your
investment that means you apply for your
alone listen to your mortgage in person
and make sure that you've followed
through with all the steps that they
give you once you've done your home
inspector inspection and you've also
gotten your appraisal from your lender
then we will also have gotten the
termite inspection in will bring those
three together and we'll do what's
called a trr that's treatment repair and
review and we request the seller to pay
a certain amount of of the repair costs
in order to get the property into the
condition that you're comfortable with
by closing
at the end of this negotiating timely
we've come up with something that will
work with both parties that ends your
right to cancel the contract as a buyer
after that your earnest money isn't
Jeffrey but at this time you've already
found out that your appraisal says that
the house is worth what it's supposed to
be and you found out that the condition
is what it's supposed to be and you also
made sure that the termites are not
eating a way of the house so all of the
fears that usually a buyer have should
have been addressed at that time we go
ahead and we move forward in the
contract that's the time when they do
what's called abstracting Oklahoma is
one of two abstract states so they send
somebody to the courthouse to ask about
any type of work that means anybody
who's owned the property or has owned
the property or is owning the property
and any title that they might have to
that property they make sure that all
those that all these documents are put
into what's called an abstract it's
about this big usually it starts when
Oklahoma was deeded as a territory and
the very beginning so they hand this
document over to a buyer's attorney to
give an opinion for the buyer to verify
that the seller has complete right to
sell the property when that's done and
all the documents have been submitted
that have been requested that's handed
over somebody at the lender he's called
an underwriter and he goes through
underwriting and the underwriting just
goes through make sure that all the
documents are done properly that the
investment is a good investment for the
lender as well as for the home owner and
when they are satisfied they will write
up what call closing instructions and
send it to the closing company the
closing company is a company that has
ordered the repairs and not the repairs
but has ordered the termite work and
ordered the title work and things like
that they will go ahead and get the
closing documents together and the most
important closing document is going to
be hud-1 the hud-1 shows where all the
money went
in the very beginning I would have given
you an estimation where the money is
going to go it should be very similar at
that time we get the hud-1 right before
going to closing I send it off to the
fire or to the seller so that everybody
has a chance to look at it your lender
has already looked at and verified that
it is correct but we get a chance as
well and as we look at it we can see if
there's any mistakes if we find a
mistake we go ahead and address them by
the time we get in closing we should
have already seen it said okay and then
you just sign the document showing that
you have agreed upon these terms and
then you reapply for your loan you sign
a bunch of disclosures it's usually
anywhere from 50 to 200 pieces of paper
that you're going to be signing and at
the end of that time the seller hands
over the keys the earnest money is back
in your pocket and then you have
purchased the home if you have any
questions or need to know more
information feel free to give me a call
my my website is Lofton home calm and
I'm Catherine right on the corner of
17th and cash road at Remax
professionals thank you so much for
listening and I hope I'll be able to
work with you sometime in the future